{{ZenPack
|Summary=This ZenPack provides status and performance monitoring of HBase.
|Organization=Zenoss, Inc.
|ZenPack name=ZenPacks.zenoss.HBase
|Source URI=
|Releases={{Release
|Version=
|Tag=
|Release date=
|Compatible with=Zenoss Core 4.2.x, Zenoss Resource Manager 4.1.x, Zenoss Resource Manager 4.2.x
|Requires=PythonCollector
}}
|Devices=
|Applications={{Application
|Product Name=HBase
}}
|Integrations=
|DataAudits=
|Binaries=
|Flavor=
}}

The <span class="zenpack">ZenPacks.zenoss.HBase</span> ZenPack monitors HBase 
clusters through ''Apache HBase REST Interface'' and Python 
<samp class="ph codeph">twisted.web.client</samp> asynchronous framework.

__TOC__

The features added by this ZenPack can be summarized as follows.
They are each detailed further below.

* Discovery and periodic remodeling of relevant components. 
* Performance monitoring. 
* Event monitoring.
* Optional service impact with addition of Zenoss Service Dynamics product. 

=== Discovery ===

The following values are discovered through zProperties you provide:

; Region Servers
: ''Attributes'': Name (DomainName:port), Start Code
: ''Collections'': Regions

; Regions
: ''Attributes'': Table, Start Key, Region ID

; Tables
: ''Attributes'': Compaction, Enabled

=== Performance Monitoring ===

The following metrics will be collected and graphed every 5 minutes by default:

; HBase Cluster Metrics
: ''Region Server Statistics'': The number of dead, live and overall number of Region Servers
: ''Performance'': Average load, Requests

; Region Servers
: ''Region Statistics'': Number of Regions, Storefiles and Stores
: ''Memory Usage'': Heap Memory Size (MB)
: ''Storage Statistics'': Memstore Size (MB), Storefile Index Size (MB), Storefile Size (MB)
: ''Requests'': Read, Write

; Regions
: ''Storage Statistics'': Memstore Size (MB), Storefile Index Size (MB), Storefile Size (MB), Storefiles, Stores
: ''Requests'': Read, Write

=== Event monitoring ===

The following events will be triggered with respect to the monitored metrics:

;HBase Cluster
: ''Critical'': Connection refused/Credentials not valid.
: ''Critical'': The percentage of dead servers exceeds 50%.
: ''Warning'': The percentage of dead servers exceeds 10%.

; Region Servers
: ''Error'': The server is dead.
: ''Warning'': The Memstore Size is nearing or exceeding its global.memstore.size (defaults to 40% of maxHeapSize).
: ''Info'': One or more regionservers have been added/removed.

; Regions
: ''Warning'': The Memstore Size is nearing or exceeding its flush size (128MB by default).
: ''Warning'': The Storefile Size is nearing or exceeding the recommended maximum size (10GB by default).

; Tables
: ''Error'': The table was disabled or dropped.

=== Service Impact ===
When combined with the Zenoss Service Dynamics product, this ZenPack adds 
built-in service impact capability for HBase. The following service impact 
relationships are automatically added. These will be included in any services 
containing one or more of the explicitly mentioned entities.
;Service Impact Relationships
* Region Server or Table failure affects related device.
* Region failure affects related Region Server.

== Usage ==

Use the following steps to start monitoring HBase:
# Select Infrastructure from the navigation bar.
# Click the device name in the device list. The device overview page appears.
# Select ''Configuration Properties'' from the left panel.
# Checkmark the ''zHBase'' property checkbox to enable monitoring.
# Set the ''zHBasePassword'' and ''zHBaseUsername'' if you have access authentication enabled on your HBase master.
# Optionally set the ''zHBaseProt'' if you have your HBase rest daemon started on any other port than 8080.
# Navigate to the ''Modeler plugins'' page of the device containing your HBase server, add the ''HBaseCollector'' and ''HBaseTableCollector'' modeler plugins.
# Select ''Bind Templates'' from the Action menu. The ''Bind Templates'' dialog appears.
# Add the ''HBaseCluster'' template to the list of selected templates, and then click ''Submit''. The HBaseCluster template is added to the list of monitoring templates. 

=== Authorize User Access to Apache HBase ===

Use the [http://hbase.apache.org/book/hbase.secure.simpleconfiguration.html Secure Apache HBase] guide 
to set up Apache HBase and clients for simple user access to HBase resources.

== Prerequisites ==

This ZenPack uses the ''Apache HBase REST Interface'' for performance monitoring,
therefore the rest daemon should be started and running on 
the port specified in ''zHBaseProt'' zProperty.

You can start the rest daemon by executing the following command:

<code>bin/hbase-daemon.sh start rest</code>

Please make sure that the default port for the HBase Master web UI (60010) 
was not changed in the ''hbase-default.xml'' and the UI instance is running, 
as it is used for tables state monitoring.

== Troubleshooting ==

Please refer the the Zenoss Service Dynamics documentation if you run into 
any of the following problems:

* ZenPack will not install
* Adding a device fails
* Don't understand how to add a device
* Don't understand how to model a device

If you cannot find the answer in the documentation, then Resource Manager (Service Dynamics) 
users should contact [https://support.zenoss.com Zenoss Customer Support]. 
Core users can use the #zenoss IRC channel or the community.zenoss.org forums.

== Daemons ==

{| class="wikitable"
!width="50%"|Type
!width="50%"|Name
|-
|Performance Collector
|zenpython
|}

{{ZenPackFooter}}
